website/blog/2019-04-26-mercury.md, before:

---
author: Ólafur Páll Geirsson
title: Metals v0.5.1
authorURL: https://twitter.com/olafurpg
authorImageURL: https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1408093?s=460&v=4
---

This release introduces minor improvements and bug fixes with highlights
including:

- auto-imports are inserted at the toplevel instead of locally
- document symbol lists inner methods and anonymous classes
- the recommended Vim client is now coc.nvim
- diagnostics are cleared for deleted files
- fuzzy symbol search no longer returns results for deleted files
- find all references now handles synthetic `update` calls

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Atom, Vim,
Sublime Text and Emacs. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) along with contributors from the
community.

In this release we merged 15 PRs and closed 7 issues, full details:
https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/8?closed=1.

## Automatic imports are placed globally instead of locally

Previously, auto-imports were placed locally like this:

```scala
object Main {
  import scala.concurrent.Future // <- automatically added by Metals
  val future = Future@@
}
```

Now, the import is inserted at the toplevel instead

```scala
import scala.concurrent.Future // <- automatically added by Metals

object Main {
  val future = Future@@
}
```

## Document symbols now shows inner methods and anonymous classes

**Before**:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/56455884-dc92d300-6364-11e9-837e-c8aedd13e78d.png)

**After**:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/56455880-cab13000-6364-11e9-910a-4b55854df147.png)

## Diagnostics gracefully handle deleted files

Previously, deleting a file with compile errors would result in the stale
diagnostics to stay until you restarted the Metals server. Now, diagnostics are
cleared when a source file is deleted.

## Fuzzy symbol sarch gracefully handles deleted files

Previously, fuzzy searching for a symbol could return results from deleted
files. Now, fuzzy symbol search only shows results from files that exist on
disk.

## Find all references handles synthetic `update` calls

Previously, find all references did not catch references where an `update()`
method call was synthesized.

```scala
val cache = mutable.Map.empty[String, String]
cache("a") = "b" // before: referenced `Map.update()` instead of `cache`
```

Now, the reference to `cache` in `cache("a") = "b"` is indexed as well as the
synthetic call to the `Map.update()` method.

## The recommended Vim client is now coc.nvim

Previously, the
[vim installation instructions](https://scalameta.org/metals/docs/editors/vim.html)
recommended the vim-lsc client. Now, the installation instructions recommend
coc.vim since it supports more functionality of the Language Server Protocol. If
you use Vim, we recommend trying out coc.vim to enjoy more advanced features
like completions with auto-imports.

## Contributors

Big thanks to everybody who contributed to this release!

```
$ git shortlog -sn --no-merges v0.5.0..v0.5.1
Ólafur Páll Geirsson
Gabriele Petronella
Gabriel Volpe
JesusMtnez
Eric Peters
Arnout Engelen
Robin Green
Tomasz Godzik
David Strawn
```

## Merged PRs

- Upgrade to latest Scalameta.
  [\#702](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/702)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Add question template [\#701](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/701)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Don't return workspace/symbol results for deleted files.
  [\#695](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/695)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Insert global imports instead of local imports.
  [\#692](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/692)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Fix a dead link to Bloop site
  [\#691](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/691)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Update a couple .lines to .linesIterator for java11
  [\#688](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/688)
  ([er1c](https://github.com/er1c))
- Fix typo [\#687](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/687)
  ([greenrd](https://github.com/greenrd))
- Handle document symbols for nested declarations
  [\#686](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/686)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Update Emacs docs [\#681](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/681)
  ([JesusMtnez](https://github.com/JesusMtnez))
- Add "Coming from IntelliJ" section to VS Code docs.
  [\#678](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/678)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Clear diagnostics on build import, fixes \#644.
  [\#677](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/677)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Disable flaky test on Appveyor.
  [\#676](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/676)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Update stable version in issue template
  [\#671](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/671)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Documenting coc.nvim as the recommended LSP client for Vim
  [\#665](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/665)
  ([gvolpe](https://github.com/gvolpe))
- Remove Deprecated Usage Of `java.util.Date` API
  [\#663](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/663)
  ([isomarcte](https://github.com/isomarcte))
- Link to vscode marketplace
  [\#661](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/661)
  ([raboof](https://github.com/raboof))
- Use correct GIF for signature help on landing page.
  [\#660](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/660)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Document new features and write release announcement.
  [\#655](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/655)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Make detail view in override not show unicode character.
  [\#654](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/654)
  ([tgodzik](https://github.com/tgodzik))

Commit message:

Add deprecation note to 0.5.1 release notes

website/blog/2019-04-26-mercury.md, after:

---
author: Ólafur Páll Geirsson
title: Metals v0.5.1
authorURL: https://twitter.com/olafurpg
authorImageURL: https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1408093?s=460&v=4
---

This release introduces minor improvements and bug fixes with highlights
including:

- auto-imports are inserted at the toplevel instead of locally
- document symbol lists inner methods and anonymous classes
- the recommended Vim client is now coc.nvim
- diagnostics are cleared for deleted files
- fuzzy symbol search no longer returns results for deleted files
- find all references now handles synthetic `update` calls
- deprecate older Scala versions

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Atom, Vim,
Sublime Text and Emacs. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) along with contributors from the
community.

In this release we merged 15 PRs and closed 7 issues, full details:
https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/8?closed=1.

## Automatic imports are placed globally instead of locally

Previously, auto-imports were placed locally like this:

```scala
object Main {
  import scala.concurrent.Future // <- automatically added by Metals
  val future = Future@@
}
```

Now, the import is inserted at the toplevel instead

```scala
import scala.concurrent.Future // <- automatically added by Metals

object Main {
  val future = Future@@
}
```

## Document symbols now shows inner methods and anonymous classes

**Before**:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/56455884-dc92d300-6364-11e9-837e-c8aedd13e78d.png)

**After**:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/56455880-cab13000-6364-11e9-910a-4b55854df147.png)

## Diagnostics gracefully handle deleted files

Previously, deleting a file with compile errors would result in the stale
diagnostics to stay until you restarted the Metals server. Now, diagnostics are
cleared when a source file is deleted.

## Fuzzy symbol sarch gracefully handles deleted files

Previously, fuzzy searching for a symbol could return results from deleted
files. Now, fuzzy symbol search only shows results from files that exist on
disk.

## Find all references handles synthetic `update` calls

Previously, find all references did not catch references where an `update()`
method call was synthesized.

```scala
val cache = mutable.Map.empty[String, String]
cache("a") = "b" // before: referenced `Map.update()` instead of `cache`
```

Now, the reference to `cache` in `cache("a") = "b"` is indexed as well as the
synthetic call to the `Map.update()` method.

## The recommended Vim client is now coc.nvim

Previously, the
[vim installation instructions](https://scalameta.org/metals/docs/editors/vim.html)
recommended the vim-lsc client. Now, the installation instructions recommend
coc.vim since it supports more functionality of the Language Server Protocol. If
you use Vim, we recommend trying out coc.vim to enjoy more advanced features
like completions with auto-imports.

## Deprecate older Scala versions

Metals works with Scala 2.11 and Scala 2.12. Starting from the next release,
Metals will drop support for the older patch versions of those series, and it
will exclusively support these version:

- 2.11.12
- 2.12.7
- 2.12.8

Starting from this release, we will show a warning at startup if you're using an
outdated Scala version, prompting you to upgrade your project to the latest
version.

## Contributors

Big thanks to everybody who contributed to this release!

```
$ git shortlog -sn --no-merges v0.5.0..v0.5.1
Ólafur Páll Geirsson
Gabriele Petronella
Gabriel Volpe
JesusMtnez
Eric Peters
Arnout Engelen
Robin Green
Tomasz Godzik
David Strawn
```

## Merged PRs

- Upgrade to latest Scalameta.
  [\#702](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/702)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Add question template [\#701](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/701)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Don't return workspace/symbol results for deleted files.
  [\#695](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/695)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Insert global imports instead of local imports.
  [\#692](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/692)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Fix a dead link to Bloop site
  [\#691](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/691)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Update a couple .lines to .linesIterator for java11
  [\#688](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/688)
  ([er1c](https://github.com/er1c))
- Fix typo [\#687](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/687)
  ([greenrd](https://github.com/greenrd))
- Handle document symbols for nested declarations
  [\#686](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/686)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Update Emacs docs [\#681](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/681)
  ([JesusMtnez](https://github.com/JesusMtnez))
- Add "Coming from IntelliJ" section to VS Code docs.
  [\#678](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/678)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Clear diagnostics on build import, fixes \#644.
  [\#677](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/677)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Disable flaky test on Appveyor.
  [\#676](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/676)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Update stable version in issue template
  [\#671](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/671)
  ([gabro](https://github.com/gabro))
- Documenting coc.nvim as the recommended LSP client for Vim
  [\#665](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/665)
  ([gvolpe](https://github.com/gvolpe))
- Remove Deprecated Usage Of `java.util.Date` API
  [\#663](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/663)
  ([isomarcte](https://github.com/isomarcte))
- Link to vscode marketplace
  [\#661](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/661)
  ([raboof](https://github.com/raboof))
- Use correct GIF for signature help on landing page.
  [\#660](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/660)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Document new features and write release announcement.
  [\#655](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/655)
  ([olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg))
- Make detail view in override not show unicode character.
  [\#654](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/654)
  ([tgodzik](https://github.com/tgodzik))
