---
authors: dos65
title: Towards better releases
---

As many of you might have noticed, the previous `0.11.0` release didn't go
smoothly due to a number of issues that came to light only after the release was
published. Some of them were quite critical and the only option to continue to
work was to downgrade Metals until `0.11.1` arrived.

We apologize for that!

However, this post is not only about saying sorry. In order to avoid such
situations in the future we have taken it upon ourselves to take steps that will
allow us to detect issues earlier.

There were two main improvements that were implemented since the last release:

- Decouple Metals releases from Scala releases
- Pre-release version for VSCode extension

## Decouple Metals releases from Scala releases

We haven't mentioned this in the release notes for `0.11.0`, but since that
version we have changed the way Metals detects whether a specific version is
supported and thanks to that we are now able to backpublish new Scala versions
support. The support of Scala `3.1.1` Scala was added to Metals `0.11.1` using
this new mechanism. It allows us to provide new Scala version support much
faster than before and also support Scala3-NIGTHTLY versions.

The additional benefit from this approach is that it eliminates time pressure
for future Metals releases. If you look at the release notes for previous
versions, almost every one brings at least one new compiler version support.
Having this limitation and the need to provide the new release as soon as
possible always increases the chances of something affecting the release. So,
now with this new feature we are able to take our time for final fixes and do
releases with more confidence.

The current state for Scala versions support is:

- Every Metals release comes with support to all known supported Scala
  versions + last 5 latest Scala3-NIGHTLY versions. This is applied to SNAPSHOT
  releases too.
- In case a new Scala version appear, the latest Metals release will receive its
  support automatically. For example, the next Scala `3.1.2` will be supported
  only by the latest Metals `0.11.1` but not by `0.11.0`. That works for
  Scala3-NIGHTLY versions too. Metals has a scheduled daily job that publishes
  artifacts for newly discovered NIGHTLY versions.

## Pre-release version for VSCode extension

Another great feature that was added was the possibility to use the
`pre-release` versions of the Metals extension. If you open the Metals extension
page, you will find a `Switch to Pre-release version` button. This version is
like a snapshot, it's published for every change in the
[scalameta/metals-vscode](https://github.com/scalameta/metals-vscode)
repository.

It allows to test not yet released features, as well as to check if everything
works fine for your workspace using the latest main branch. Some issues might be
observed only under the particular version of the client as was the case with
the ill fated 0.11.0 release.

Also, there is a new setting `Metals: Suggest Latest Upgrade` that is enabled by
default for `pre-release`. If you have it enabled, you will receive
notifications with an option to upgrade Metals server version to the latest
snapshot once a day.

We hope that some brave users will start using this `pre-release` version and
report issues if you encounter any. This will help us spot problems earlier.

_Notice_: Using pre-release versions may result in a less stable experience. In
case of issues, if you are switching back from `pre-release` to `release` you
also need to downgrade `Metals: Server Version` manually. The actual version
might be found at
[docs page](https://scalameta.org/metals/docs/#latest-metals-server-versions) or
[latest.json](https://scalameta.org/metals/latests.json)
