docs/editors/vim.md, before:

---
id: vim
title: Vim
---

![Vim demo](https://i.imgur.com/4BYHCCL.gif)

Metals works with most LSP clients for Vim, but we recommend using the
[coc-metals extension](https://www.npmjs.com/package/coc-metals) for [`coc.nvim`](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim)
which will provide the most complete implementation of LSP and Metals specific helpers.


```scala mdoc:requirements

```

## Installing Vim

The coc.nvim plugin requires either **Vim >= 8.1** or **Neovim >= 0.3.1**. Make
sure you have the correct version installed.

```sh
# If using Vim
vim --version | head
VIM - Vi IMproved 8.2

# If using Neovim
nvim --version | head
NVIM v0.4.3
```
## Installing yarn

`coc.nvim` requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) in order to work.
It also uses [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#debian-stable) to manage
extensions but you could opt-out of it and use `vim-plug` instead.

For convenience we recommend installing both via your favorite package manager or manually:

```sh
curl -sL install-node.now.sh/lts | sh
curl --compressed -o- -L https://yarnpkg.com/install.sh | bash
```

## Installing coc.nvim

Once the requirements are satisfied, we can now proceed to install the following
plugins:

- [`neoclide/coc.nvim`](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim/): Language Server
  Protocol client to communicate with the Metals language server.
- [`derekwyatt/vim-scala`](https://github.com/derekwyatt/vim-scala): for syntax
  highlighting Scala and sbt source files.

Assuming [`vim-plug`](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) is used (another
plugin manager like vundle works too), update your `~/.vimrc` to include the
following settings.

```vim
" ~/.vimrc

" Configuration for vim-plug
Plug 'derekwyatt/vim-scala'
Plug 'neoclide/coc.nvim', {'branch': 'release'}

" Configuration for vim-scala
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.sbt set filetype=scala
```

Run `:PlugInstall` to install the plugin. If you already have `coc.nvim`
installed, be sure to update to the latest version with `:PlugUpdate`.

`coc.nvim` uses [jsonc](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/json) as
a configuration file format. It's basically json with comment support.

In order to get comment highlighting, please add:

```vim
autocmd FileType json syntax match Comment +\/\/.\+$+
```
### LSP commands key mapping

`coc.nvim` doesn't come with a default key mapping for LSP commands, so you need to
configure it yourself.

Here's a recommended configuration:

```vim
" ~/.vimrc
" Configuration for coc.nvim

" Smaller updatetime for CursorHold & CursorHoldI
set updatetime=300

" don't give |ins-completion-menu| messages.
set shortmess+=c

" always show signcolumns
set signcolumn=yes

" Some server have issues with backup files, see #649
set nobackup
set nowritebackup

" Better display for messages
set cmdheight=2

" Use <c-space> for trigger completion.
inoremap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()

" Use <cr> for confirm completion, `<C-g>u` means break undo chain at current position.
" Coc only does snippet and additional edit on confirm.
inoremap <expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? "\<C-y>" : "\<C-g>u\<CR>"

" Use `[c` and `]c` for navigate diagnostics
nmap <silent> [c <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]c <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

" Remap keys for gotos
nmap <silent> gd <Plug>(coc-definition)
nmap <silent> gy <Plug>(coc-type-definition)
nmap <silent> gi <Plug>(coc-implementation)
nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

" Remap for do codeAction of current line
nmap <leader>ac <Plug>(coc-codeaction)

" Remap for do action format
nnoremap <silent> F :call CocAction('format')<CR>

" Use K for show documentation in preview window
nnoremap <silent> K :call <SID>show_documentation()<CR>

function! s:show_documentation()
  if &filetype == 'vim'
    execute 'h '.expand('<cword>')
  else
    call CocAction('doHover')
  endif
endfunction

" Highlight symbol under cursor on CursorHold
autocmd CursorHold * silent call CocActionAsync('highlight')

" Remap for rename current word
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

" Show all diagnostics
nnoremap <silent> <space>a  :<C-u>CocList diagnostics<cr>
" Find symbol of current document
nnoremap <silent> <space>o  :<C-u>CocList outline<cr>
" Search workspace symbols
nnoremap <silent> <space>s  :<C-u>CocList -I symbols<cr>
" Do default action for next item.
nnoremap <silent> <space>j  :<C-u>CocNext<CR>
" Do default action for previous item.
nnoremap <silent> <space>k  :<C-u>CocPrev<CR>
" Resume latest coc list
nnoremap <silent> <space>p  :<C-u>CocListResume<CR>

" Notify coc.nvim that <enter> has been pressed.
" Currently used for the formatOnType feature.
inoremap <silent><expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? coc#_select_confirm()
      \: "\<C-g>u\<CR>\<c-r>=coc#on_enter()\<CR>"
```

### Installing coc-metals

Once you have `coc.nvim` installed, you can then install Metals by running.

```vim
:CocInstall coc-metals
```

```scala mdoc:editor:vim
Update the `metals.sbtScript` setting to use a custom `sbt` script instead of the
default Metals launcher if you need further customizations like reading environment
variables.

![Sbt Launcher](https://i.imgur.com/kbxNKzI.png)
```

## Configure Java version
The `coc-metals` extension uses by default the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable (via [`find-java-home`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/find-java-home)) to locate the `java` executable.

![No Java Home](https://i.imgur.com/clDfPMk.png)

If no `JAVA_HOME` is detected you can then Open Settings by following the instructions or do it at a later time by using `:CocConfig` or `:CocConfigLocal` which will open up your configuration where you can manually enter your JAVA_HOME location.

![Enter Java Home](https://i.imgur.com/wVThrMq.png)

## Using latest Metals SNAPSHOT

Update the "Server Version" setting to try out the latest pending Metals
features.

```scala mdoc:releases

```

After updating the version, you'll be triggered to reload the window.
This will be necessary before the new version will be dowloaded and used.

![Update Metals Version](https://i.imgur.com/VUCdQvi.png)

## List all workspace compile errors

To list all compilation errors and warnings in the workspace, run the following
command.

```vim
:CocList diagnostics
```

Or use the default recommended mapping `<space> a`.

This is helpful to see compilation errors in different files from your current
open buffer.

![Diagnostics](https://i.imgur.com/cer22HW.png)

## Run doctor

To troubleshoot problems with your build workspace, open your coc commands by either
using `:CocCommand` or the recommend mapping `<space> c`. This will open your command
window allowing you to search for `metals.doctor-run` command.

![Run Doctor Command](https://i.imgur.com/QaqhxF7.png)

This command opens your browser with a table like this.

![Run Doctor](https://i.imgur.com/yelm0jd.png)

## Other Available Command

  - `metals.restartServer`
  - `metals.build-import`
  - `metals.build-connect`
  - `metals.sources-scan`
  - `metals.compile-cascade`
  - `metals.compile-cancel`
  - `metals.doctor-run`

## Show document symbols

Run `:CocList outline` to show a symbol outline for the current file or use the
default mapping `<space> o`.

![Document Symbols](https://i.imgur.com/gEhAXV4.png)

## Available Configuration Options

The following configuration options are currently available. The easiest way to set these configurations is to enter `:CocConfig` or `:CocLocalConfig` to set your global or local configuration settings respectively.
If you'd like to get autocompletion help for the configuration values you can install [coc-json](https://github.com/neoclide/coc-json).

```scala mdoc:user-config:lsp-config-coc
```

## Enable on type formatting for multiline string formatting

![on-type](https://i.imgur.com/astTOKu.gif)

To properly support adding `|` in multiline strings we are using the
`onTypeFormatting` method. To enable the functionality you need to enable
`coc.preferences.formatOnType` setting.

![coc-preferences-formatOnType](https://i.imgur.com/RWPHt2q.png)

### Close buffer without exiting

To close a buffer and return to the previous buffer, run the following command.

```vim
:bd
```

This command is helpful when navigating in library dependency sources in the .metals/readonly directory.

### Shut down the language server

The Metals server is shutdown when you exit vim as usual.

```vim
:wq
```

This step clean ups resources that are used by the server.

```scala mdoc:generic

```

## Using an alternative LSP Client

While we recommend using the `coc-metals` extions with `coc.nvim`, Metals will work
with these alternative LSP clients.

- [`vim-lsc`](https://github.com/natebosch/vim-lsc/): simple installation and
  low resource usage but limited functionality (no auto-import, cancellation,
  formatting, folding).
- [`LanguageClient-neovim`](https://github.com/autozimu/LanguageClient-neovim/):
  client written in Rust.
- [`vim-lsp`](https://github.com/prabirshrestha/vim-lsp): simple installation
  but limited functionality (no auto-import, cancellation and no prompt for
  build import).

### Generating metals binary

If you now start Vim in a Scala project, it will fail since the `metals-vim`
binary does not exist yet.

```scala mdoc:bootstrap:metals-vim vim-lsc

```

The `-Dmetals.client=vim-lsc` flag is important since it configures Metals for
usage with the `vim-lsc` client.

Commit message:

add in instructions on how to use vim-plug to install

docs/editors/vim.md, after:

---
id: vim
title: Vim
---

![Vim demo](https://i.imgur.com/4BYHCCL.gif)

Metals works with most LSP clients for Vim, but we recommend using the
[coc-metals extension](https://www.npmjs.com/package/coc-metals) for [`coc.nvim`](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim)
which will provide the most complete implementation of LSP and Metals specific helpers.


```scala mdoc:requirements

```

## Installing Vim

The coc.nvim plugin requires either **Vim >= 8.1** or **Neovim >= 0.3.1**. Make
sure you have the correct version installed.

```sh
# If using Vim
vim --version | head
VIM - Vi IMproved 8.2

# If using Neovim
nvim --version | head
NVIM v0.4.3
```
## Installing yarn

`coc.nvim` requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) in order to work.
It also uses [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#debian-stable) to manage
extensions but you could opt-out of it and use `vim-plug` instead.

For convenience we recommend installing both via your favorite package manager or manually:

```sh
curl -sL install-node.now.sh/lts | sh
curl --compressed -o- -L https://yarnpkg.com/install.sh | bash
```

## Installing coc.nvim

Once the requirements are satisfied, we can now proceed to install the following
plugins:

- [`neoclide/coc.nvim`](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim/): Language Server
  Protocol client to communicate with the Metals language server.
- [`derekwyatt/vim-scala`](https://github.com/derekwyatt/vim-scala): for syntax
  highlighting Scala and sbt source files.

Assuming [`vim-plug`](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) is used (another
plugin manager like vundle works too), update your `~/.vimrc` to include the
following settings.

```vim
" ~/.vimrc

" Configuration for vim-plug
Plug 'derekwyatt/vim-scala'
Plug 'neoclide/coc.nvim', {'branch': 'release'}

" Configuration for vim-scala
au BufRead,BufNewFile *.sbt set filetype=scala
```

Run `:PlugInstall` to install the plugin. If you already have `coc.nvim`
installed, be sure to update to the latest version with `:PlugUpdate`.

`coc.nvim` uses [jsonc](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/json) as
a configuration file format. It's basically json with comment support.

In order to get comment highlighting, please add:

```vim
autocmd FileType json syntax match Comment +\/\/.\+$+
```
### LSP commands key mapping

`coc.nvim` doesn't come with a default key mapping for LSP commands, so you need to
configure it yourself.

Here's a recommended configuration:

```vim
" ~/.vimrc
" Configuration for coc.nvim

" Smaller updatetime for CursorHold & CursorHoldI
set updatetime=300

" don't give |ins-completion-menu| messages.
set shortmess+=c

" always show signcolumns
set signcolumn=yes

" Some server have issues with backup files, see #649
set nobackup
set nowritebackup

" Better display for messages
set cmdheight=2

" Use <c-space> for trigger completion.
inoremap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()

" Use <cr> for confirm completion, `<C-g>u` means break undo chain at current position.
" Coc only does snippet and additional edit on confirm.
inoremap <expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? "\<C-y>" : "\<C-g>u\<CR>"

" Use `[c` and `]c` for navigate diagnostics
nmap <silent> [c <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]c <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

" Remap keys for gotos
nmap <silent> gd <Plug>(coc-definition)
nmap <silent> gy <Plug>(coc-type-definition)
nmap <silent> gi <Plug>(coc-implementation)
nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

" Remap for do codeAction of current line
nmap <leader>ac <Plug>(coc-codeaction)

" Remap for do action format
nnoremap <silent> F :call CocAction('format')<CR>

" Use K for show documentation in preview window
nnoremap <silent> K :call <SID>show_documentation()<CR>

function! s:show_documentation()
  if &filetype == 'vim'
    execute 'h '.expand('<cword>')
  else
    call CocAction('doHover')
  endif
endfunction

" Highlight symbol under cursor on CursorHold
autocmd CursorHold * silent call CocActionAsync('highlight')

" Remap for rename current word
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

" Show all diagnostics
nnoremap <silent> <space>a  :<C-u>CocList diagnostics<cr>
" Find symbol of current document
nnoremap <silent> <space>o  :<C-u>CocList outline<cr>
" Search workspace symbols
nnoremap <silent> <space>s  :<C-u>CocList -I symbols<cr>
" Do default action for next item.
nnoremap <silent> <space>j  :<C-u>CocNext<CR>
" Do default action for previous item.
nnoremap <silent> <space>k  :<C-u>CocPrev<CR>
" Resume latest coc list
nnoremap <silent> <space>p  :<C-u>CocListResume<CR>

" Notify coc.nvim that <enter> has been pressed.
" Currently used for the formatOnType feature.
inoremap <silent><expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? coc#_select_confirm()
      \: "\<C-g>u\<CR>\<c-r>=coc#on_enter()\<CR>"
```

### Installing coc-metals

Once you have `coc.nvim` installed, you can then install Metals by running.

```vim
:CocInstall coc-metals
```
If you'd like to use the latest changes on master, you can also just build from source by using a plugin
manager to download the extension. If you do this and you've had `coc-metals` installed before with `:CocInstall`,
make sure you run `:CocUninstall coc-metals` to remove it. Then, if you are using [`vim-plug`](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)
for example, enter the following into where you manage your plugins:

```vim
Plug 'ckipp01/coc-metals', {'do': 'yarn install --frozen-lockfile'}
```
Then, issue a `:PlugInstall` to install the extension, and regularly a `:PlugUpdate` to update it and pull in the latest changes.

```scala mdoc:editor:vim
Update the `metals.sbtScript` setting to use a custom `sbt` script instead of the
default Metals launcher if you need further customizations like reading environment
variables.

![Sbt Launcher](https://i.imgur.com/kbxNKzI.png)
```

## Configure Java version
The `coc-metals` extension uses by default the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable (via [`find-java-home`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/find-java-home)) to locate the `java` executable.

![No Java Home](https://i.imgur.com/clDfPMk.png)

If no `JAVA_HOME` is detected you can then Open Settings by following the instructions or do it at a later time by using `:CocConfig` or `:CocConfigLocal` which will open up your configuration where you can manually enter your JAVA_HOME location.

![Enter Java Home](https://i.imgur.com/wVThrMq.png)

## Using latest Metals SNAPSHOT

Update the "Server Version" setting to try out the latest pending Metals
features.

```scala mdoc:releases

```

After updating the version, you'll be triggered to reload the window.
This will be necessary before the new version will be dowloaded and used.

![Update Metals Version](https://i.imgur.com/VUCdQvi.png)

## List all workspace compile errors

To list all compilation errors and warnings in the workspace, run the following
command.

```vim
:CocList diagnostics
```

Or use the default recommended mapping `<space> a`.

This is helpful to see compilation errors in different files from your current
open buffer.

![Diagnostics](https://i.imgur.com/cer22HW.png)

## Run doctor

To troubleshoot problems with your build workspace, open your coc commands by either
using `:CocCommand` or the recommend mapping `<space> c`. This will open your command
window allowing you to search for `metals.doctor-run` command.

![Run Doctor Command](https://i.imgur.com/QaqhxF7.png)

This command opens your browser with a table like this.

![Run Doctor](https://i.imgur.com/yelm0jd.png)

## Other Available Command

  - `metals.restartServer`
  - `metals.build-import`
  - `metals.build-connect`
  - `metals.sources-scan`
  - `metals.compile-cascade`
  - `metals.compile-cancel`
  - `metals.doctor-run`

## Show document symbols

Run `:CocList outline` to show a symbol outline for the current file or use the
default mapping `<space> o`.

![Document Symbols](https://i.imgur.com/gEhAXV4.png)

## Available Configuration Options

The following configuration options are currently available. The easiest way to set these configurations is to enter `:CocConfig` or `:CocLocalConfig` to set your global or local configuration settings respectively.
If you'd like to get autocompletion help for the configuration values you can install [coc-json](https://github.com/neoclide/coc-json).

```scala mdoc:user-config:lsp-config-coc
```

## Enable on type formatting for multiline string formatting

![on-type](https://i.imgur.com/astTOKu.gif)

To properly support adding `|` in multiline strings we are using the
`onTypeFormatting` method. To enable the functionality you need to enable
`coc.preferences.formatOnType` setting.

![coc-preferences-formatOnType](https://i.imgur.com/RWPHt2q.png)

### Close buffer without exiting

To close a buffer and return to the previous buffer, run the following command.

```vim
:bd
```

This command is helpful when navigating in library dependency sources in the .metals/readonly directory.

### Shut down the language server

The Metals server is shutdown when you exit vim as usual.

```vim
:wq
```

This step clean ups resources that are used by the server.

```scala mdoc:generic

```

## Using an alternative LSP Client

While we recommend using the `coc-metals` extions with `coc.nvim`, Metals will work
with these alternative LSP clients.

- [`vim-lsc`](https://github.com/natebosch/vim-lsc/): simple installation and
  low resource usage but limited functionality (no auto-import, cancellation,
  formatting, folding).
- [`LanguageClient-neovim`](https://github.com/autozimu/LanguageClient-neovim/):
  client written in Rust.
- [`vim-lsp`](https://github.com/prabirshrestha/vim-lsp): simple installation
  but limited functionality (no auto-import, cancellation and no prompt for
  build import).

### Generating metals binary

If you now start Vim in a Scala project, it will fail since the `metals-vim`
binary does not exist yet.

```scala mdoc:bootstrap:metals-vim vim-lsc

```

The `-Dmetals.client=vim-lsc` flag is important since it configures Metals for
usage with the `vim-lsc` client.
