docs/editors/vscode.md, before:

---
id: vscode
title: Visual Studio Code
---

![Goto Definition](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1408093/48776422-1f764f00-ecd0-11e8-96d1-170f2354d50e.gif)

```scala mdoc:requirements

```

## Installation

Install the Metals extension from the Marketplace, search for "Metals".

[![Install Metals extension](https://img.shields.io/badge/metals-vscode-blue.png)](vscode:extension/scalameta.metals)

> Make sure to disable the extensions
> [Scala Language Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dragos.scala-lsp)
> and
> [Scala (sbt)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=lightbend.vscode-sbt-scala)
> if they are installed. The
> [Dotty Language Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=lampepfl.dotty)
> does **not** need to be disabled because the Metals and Dotty extensions don't
> conflict with each other.

Next, open a directory containing a `build.sbt` file. The extension activates
when a `*.scala` or `*.sbt` file is opened.

```scala mdoc:editor:vscode
Update the "Sbt Script" setting to use a custom `sbt` script instead of the
default Metals launcher if you need further customizations like reading environment
variables.

![Sbt Launcher](https://i.imgur.com/NuwEBe4.png)
```

```scala mdoc:command-palette:vscode

```

## Configure Java version

The VS Code plugin uses by default the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable (via
[`find-java-home`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/find-java-home)) to locate the
`java` executable. Metals only works with Java 8 so this executable cannot point
to another version such as Java 11.

To override the default Java home location, update the "Java Home" variable to
in the settings menu.

![Java Home setting](https://i.imgur.com/sKrPKk2.png)

If this setting is defined, the VS Code plugin uses the custom path instead of
the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable.

### macOS

To globally configure `$JAVA_HOME` for all GUI applications, see
[this Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135688/setting-environment-variables-on-os-x).

If you prefer to manually configure Java home through VS Code, run the following
command to copy the Java 8 home path.

```sh
/usr/libexec/java_home -v 1.8 | pbcopy
```

## Using latest Metals SNAPSHOT

Update the "Server Version" setting to try out the latest pending Metals
features.

```scala mdoc:releases

```

Run the "Reload Window" command after updating the setting for the new version
to take effect.

```scala mdoc:generic

```

## Show document symbols

Run the "Explorer: Focus on Outline View" command to open the symbol outline for
the current file in the sidebar.

![Document Symbols Outline](https://i.imgur.com/T0kVJsr.gif)

Run the "Open Symbol in File" command to search for a symbol in the current file
without opening the sidebar.

![Document Symbols Command](https://i.imgur.com/0PJ4brd.png)

As you type, the symbol outline is also visible at the top of the file.
![Document Symbols Outline](https://i.imgur.com/L217n4q.png)

Commit message:

Document using HTTP proxy from VS Code

docs/editors/vscode.md, after:

---
id: vscode
title: Visual Studio Code
---

![Goto Definition](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1408093/48776422-1f764f00-ecd0-11e8-96d1-170f2354d50e.gif)

```scala mdoc:requirements

```

## Installation

Install the Metals extension from the Marketplace, search for "Metals".

[![Install Metals extension](https://img.shields.io/badge/metals-vscode-blue.png)](vscode:extension/scalameta.metals)

> Make sure to disable the extensions
> [Scala Language Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dragos.scala-lsp)
> and
> [Scala (sbt)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=lightbend.vscode-sbt-scala)
> if they are installed. The
> [Dotty Language Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=lampepfl.dotty)
> does **not** need to be disabled because the Metals and Dotty extensions don't
> conflict with each other.

Next, open a directory containing a `build.sbt` file. The extension activates
when a `*.scala` or `*.sbt` file is opened.

```scala mdoc:editor:vscode
Update the "Sbt Script" setting to use a custom `sbt` script instead of the
default Metals launcher if you need further customizations like reading environment
variables.

![Sbt Launcher](https://i.imgur.com/NuwEBe4.png)
```

```scala mdoc:command-palette:vscode

```

## Configure Java version

The VS Code plugin uses by default the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable (via
[`find-java-home`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/find-java-home)) to locate the
`java` executable. Metals only works with Java 8 so this executable cannot point
to another version such as Java 11.

To override the default Java home location, update the "Java Home" variable to
in the settings menu.

![Java Home setting](https://i.imgur.com/sKrPKk2.png)

If this setting is defined, the VS Code plugin uses the custom path instead of
the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable.

### macOS

To globally configure `$JAVA_HOME` for all GUI applications, see
[this Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135688/setting-environment-variables-on-os-x).

If you prefer to manually configure Java home through VS Code, run the following
command to copy the Java 8 home path.

```sh
/usr/libexec/java_home -v 1.8 | pbcopy
```

## HTTP proxy

Metals uses [Coursier](https://get-coursier.io/docs/other-proxy) to download
artifacts from Maven Central. To use Metals behind an HTTP proxy, configure the
system properties `-Dhttps.proxyHost=… -Dhttps.proxyPort=…` in one of the
following locations:

- `.jvmopts` file in the workspace directory.
- `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable, make sure to start `code` from your terminal
  when using this option since environment variables don't always propagate
  correctly when opening VS Code as a GUI application outside a terminal.
- "Server Properties" setting for the Metals VS Code extension, which can be
  configured per-workspace or per-user.

## Using latest Metals SNAPSHOT

Update the "Server Version" setting to try out the latest pending Metals
features.

```scala mdoc:releases

```

Run the "Reload Window" command after updating the setting for the new version
to take effect.

```scala mdoc:generic

```

## Show document symbols

Run the "Explorer: Focus on Outline View" command to open the symbol outline for
the current file in the sidebar.

![Document Symbols Outline](https://i.imgur.com/T0kVJsr.gif)

Run the "Open Symbol in File" command to search for a symbol in the current file
without opening the sidebar.

![Document Symbols Command](https://i.imgur.com/0PJ4brd.png)

As you type, the symbol outline is also visible at the top of the file.
![Document Symbols Outline](https://i.imgur.com/L217n4q.png)
