docs/build-tools/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
title: Build Tools Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

Metals works with the following build tools with varying degree of
functionality.

| Build tool | Installation | Goto library dependencies | Find references      |
| ---------- | :----------: | :-----------------------: | :------------------: |
| sbt        |  Automatic   |      Automatic            |     Automatic        |
| Bloop      |  Automatic   |    Semi-automatic         |   Semi-automatic     |
| Maven      |  Automatic   |      Automatic            |   Semi-automatic     |
| Gradle     |  Automatic   |      Automatic            |     Automatic        |
| Mill       |  Automatic   |      Automatic            |     Automatic        |


## Installation

**Automatic**: you can import the build directly from the language server
without the need for running custom steps in the terminal. To use automatic
installation start the Metals language server in the root directory of your
build.

**Manual**: setting up Metals requires a few manual steps to generate
[Bloop](https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop) JSON files. In addition to normal
Bloop installation, Metals requires that the project sources are compiled with
the
[semanticdb-scalac](https://scalameta.org/docs/semanticdb/guide.html#producing-semanticdb)
compiler plugin and `-Yrangepos` option enabled.

## Goto library dependencies

**Automatic**: it is possible to navigate Scala+Java library dependencies using "Goto
definition".

**Semi-automatic**: navigation in library dependency sources works as
long as the
[Bloop JSON files](https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/docs/configuration-format/)
are populated with `*-sources.jar`.

## Find references

**Automatic**: it is possible to find all references to a symbol in the project

**Semi-automatic**: it is possible to 'Find symbol references' as soon the SemanticDB compiler plugin is manually enabled in the build, check separate build tool pages for details.

## Integrating a new build tool

Metals works with any build tool that supports the
[Build Server Protocol](https://github.com/scalacenter/bsp/blob/master/docs/bsp.md).
For more information, see the
[guide to integrate new build tools](new-build-tool.md).

Commit message:

Give Bloop more visibility on the website.
Previously, the website made it appear as if Bloop was an implementation
detail of Metals. Now, the website tries to give Bloop more visibility
and advertise it as an essential part of the Metals user experience (low
latency diagnostics, testing, running, soon debugging).

This change doesn't mean that Metals doesn't work with other BSP
servers. Given that >99% of Metals users use Bloop as the build server,
the new documentation only tries to make it clearer to users how
Metals work and how they can make the most of it.

docs/build-tools/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
title: Build Tools Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

Metals works with the following build tools with varying degree of
functionality.

| Build tool |    Installation     | Goto library dependencies | Find references |
| ---------- | :-----------------: | :-----------------------: | :-------------: |
| sbt        | Automatic via Bloop |         Automatic         |    Automatic    |
| Maven      | Automatic via Bloop |         Automatic         | Semi-automatic  |
| Gradle     | Automatic via Bloop |         Automatic         |    Automatic    |
| Mill       | Automatic via Bloop |         Automatic         |    Automatic    |
| Bloop      |      Automatic      |      Semi-automatic       | Semi-automatic  |

## Installation

**Automatic via Bloop**: you can import the build directly from the language
server without the need for running custom steps in the terminal. The build is
exported to [Bloop](https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/), a Scala build server
that provides fast incremental compilation.

**Automatic**: you can import the build directly from the language server
without the need for running custom steps in the terminal. To use automatic
installation start the Metals language server in the root directory of your
build.

**Manual**: setting up Metals requires a few manual steps to generate
[Bloop](https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop) JSON files. In addition to normal
Bloop installation, Metals requires that the project sources are compiled with
the
[semanticdb-scalac](https://scalameta.org/docs/semanticdb/guide.html#producing-semanticdb)
compiler plugin and `-Yrangepos` option enabled.

## Goto library dependencies

**Automatic**: it is possible to navigate Scala+Java library dependencies using
"Goto definition".

**Semi-automatic**: navigation in library dependency sources works as long as
the
[Bloop JSON files](https://scalacenter.github.io/bloop/docs/configuration-format/)
are populated with `*-sources.jar`.

## Find references

**Automatic**: it is possible to find all references to a symbol in the project

**Semi-automatic**: it is possible to 'Find symbol references' as soon the
SemanticDB compiler plugin is manually enabled in the build, check separate
build tool pages for details.

## Integrating a new build tool

Metals works with any build tool that supports the
[Build Server Protocol](https://github.com/scalacenter/bsp/blob/master/docs/bsp.md).
For more information, see the
[guide to integrate new build tools](new-build-tool.md).
