docs/contributors/releasing.md, before:

---
id: releasing
title: Making a release
---

- Choose the right version number:

  - `x.0.0` is reserved for incompatible changes and require a milestone cycle.
  - `x.y.0` is reserved for compatible changes.
  - `x.y.z` is reserved for bugfixes that don't change the public API,

- Tag the release:

  - The tag must be called `vx.y.z`, e.g. `v3.0.0`.
  - `git tag -a vx.y.z -m "vx.y.z"`
  - `git push upstream --tags`
  - Do not create a release on GitHub just yet. Creating a release on GitHub
    sends out a notification to repository watchers, and the release isn't ready
    for that yet.

- Wait for [the Travis CI job](https://travis-ci.org/scalameta/metals/branches)
  in Active Branches to build the binaries and stage them to Sonatype.

- While waiting for Travis, update the milestones:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestones
  - Close the milestone or milestones corresponding to the release. For example,
    for a v3.3.0 release, we close both 3.3.0 and 3.2.1 (because we never
    released 3.2.1, so all its tickets went straight to 3.3.0).
  - Create the milestone or milestones corresponding to future releases. For
    example, for a v3.3.0 release, we create both v3.3.1 and v3.4.0.

- While waiting for Travis, draft the release notes:

  - Copy `website/blog/2018-12-06-iron.md` as a template
  - Open a PR to the repo
  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/releases/new.

- Verify the Sonatype release:

  - Make sure that the release shows up at
    https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/scalameta/.
  - Run `./bin/test-release.sh $VERSION` to ensure that all artifacts have
    successfully been released.

- Upgrade downstream projects:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals-vscode:
    - generate metals website with `sbt docs/run`
    - open `website/target/docs/editor/vscode.md` and copy everything from
      "Requirements" over to the scalameta/metals-vscode README
      - remove "Using latest SNAPSHOT" section, this table is only up-to-date on
        the website
    - open a PR, feel free to merge after CI is green
    - tag a new release and publish to Marketplace
  - https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/51988
    - update the version number and `outputHash`

- Publish the release on GitHub:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/releases
  - Copy-paste the release from the website blog
  - In the dropdown, pick the recently pushed tag.
  - In the release title, say `Metals vX.Y.Z`.
  - Once the VS Code extension has been updated on the Marketplace, click
    "Publish release".

- Announce on Gitter: https://gitter.im/scalameta/metals
  - Tag everybody with `@/all`

Commit message:

Make test-release.sh script check that artifacts have synced to Maven
Previously, we used the `-r sonatype:public` resolver by default which
passed even if the artifacts hadn't synced t Maven Centra. This resulted
in many users getting resolution errors if they updated Metals right
after the release announcement (which is easy to do with VS Code
auto-update).

docs/contributors/releasing.md, after:

---
id: releasing
title: Making a release
---

- Choose the right version number:

  - `x.0.0` is reserved for incompatible changes and require a milestone cycle.
  - `x.y.0` is reserved for compatible changes.
  - `x.y.z` is reserved for bugfixes that don't change the public API,

- Tag the release:

  - The tag must be called `vx.y.z`, e.g. `v3.0.0`.
  - `git tag -a vx.y.z -m "vx.y.z"`
  - `git push upstream --tags`
  - Do not create a release on GitHub just yet. Creating a release on GitHub
    sends out a notification to repository watchers, and the release isn't ready
    for that yet.

- Wait for [the Travis CI job](https://travis-ci.org/scalameta/metals/branches)
  in Active Branches to build the binaries and stage them to Sonatype.

- While waiting for Travis, update the milestones:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestones
  - Close the milestone or milestones corresponding to the release. For example,
    for a v3.3.0 release, we close both 3.3.0 and 3.2.1 (because we never
    released 3.2.1, so all its tickets went straight to 3.3.0).
  - Create the milestone or milestones corresponding to future releases. For
    example, for a v3.3.0 release, we create both v3.3.1 and v3.4.0.

- While waiting for Travis, draft the release notes:

  - Copy `website/blog/2018-12-06-iron.md` as a template
  - Open a PR to the repo
  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/releases/new.

- Verify the Sonatype release:

  - Make sure that the release shows up at
    https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/scalameta/.
  - Run `./bin/test-release.sh $VERSION` to ensure that all artifacts have
    successfully been released. It's important to ensure that this script passes
    before announcing the release since it takes a while for all published
    artifacts to sync with Maven Central.
  - To check that the release to Sonatype succeed even if the artifacts are not
    yet available on Maven Central run:
    `./bin/test-release.sh $VERSION -r sonatype:public`

- Upgrade downstream projects:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals-vscode:
    - generate metals website with `sbt docs/run`
    - open `website/target/docs/editor/vscode.md` and copy everything from
      "Requirements" over to the scalameta/metals-vscode README
      - remove "Using latest SNAPSHOT" section, this table is only up-to-date on
        the website
    - open a PR, feel free to merge after CI is green
    - tag a new release and publish to Marketplace
  - https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/51988
    - update the version number and `outputHash`

- Publish the release on GitHub:

  - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/releases
  - Copy-paste the release from the website blog
  - In the dropdown, pick the recently pushed tag.
  - In the release title, say `Metals vX.Y.Z`.
  - Once the VS Code extension has been updated on the Marketplace, click
    "Publish release".

- Announce on Gitter: https://gitter.im/scalameta/metals
  - Tag everybody with `@/all`
